# azurerm - change log

### v0.9.1 (9/19/2017): 
- Media services fixes. Thanks @msleal.
- create_asset_delivery_policy() and get_key_delivery_url()

### v0.9.1 (9/18/2017): 
- Add put_vmss() and put_vmss_vm() functions for easy updating of scale set properties.
- Note: put_vmss_vm() is currently preview and won't work outside of Canary environments.

### v0.9.0 (9/16/2017): 
- Integration with msleal's Azure Media Services API wrapper library.
- Part 1: integration of core APIs. Example library integration planned.

### v0.8.28 (8/29/17):
- BREAKING CHANGE: 
  Improved scale_vmss() to no longer require VM size or sku - now it only requires resource group,
  VMSS name and capacity. New definiton:
  def scale_vmss(access_token, subscription_id, resource_group, vmss_name, capacity)

### v0.8.27 (8/28/17):
- Fixed list_vmss_nics() (incorrect API version)

### v0.8.26 (8/27/17):
- Fixed list_insights_components()

### v0.8.25 (8/22/17):
- Comments formatting for README.py only.

### v0.8.24 (8/22/17):
- Added cosmosdb API - thanks @iainfoulds.

### v0.8.23 (8/11/17):
- Auto-generated documentation now in place. See [azurerm Technical Reference](https://github.com/gbowerman/azurerm/tree/master/docs).
- Documentation generated by [py2md](https://github.com/gbowerman/py2md).

### v0.8.22 (8/10/17):
- Breaking change - container instance group functions renamed to xxx_container_instance_group_yyy
   e.g. create_container_instance_group(), list_container_instance_groups_sub() etc.
- Complete docstring comments work. All functions have complete docstring descriptions.

### v0.8.20 (8/04/17):
- Comments improvements, using docstring, with a view to hosting docs on readthedocs soon.
- Made get_access_key_from_cli() check all keys in the CLI cache.

### v0.8.18 (8/04/17):
- BREAKING CHANGE:
- Changed how container instance groups are handled, in order to manage multiple container instances in a group
- Added helper function: create_container_definition(container_name, image, port=80, cpu=1.0, memgb=1.5, environment=None) 
- Create a list of these definitions which is then passed to create_container_group()
- changed other container instance functions to work at a group level
- create_container_group(access_token, subscription_id, resource_group, container_group_name,
                              container_list, location, ostype='Linux', port=80, iptype='public')
- delete_container_group(access_token, subscription_id, resource_group, container_group_name)
- get_container_group(access_token, subscription_id, resource_group, container_group_name)
- get_container_logs(access_token, subscription_id, resource_group, container_group_name, container_name=None)
- list_container_groups(access_token, subscription_id, resource_group)
- list_container_groups_sub(access_token, subscription_id)

### v0.8.17 (8/04/17):
- ISO time format fix for get_access_token_from_cli()

### v0.8.16 (8/04/17):
- Added error checking to get_access_token_from_cli() to check accessToken hasn't expired

### v0.8.15 (8/04/17):
- BREAKING CHANGE:
- ACS Windows support - Added admin_password and ostype=[Linux/Windows] arguments to create_container_service()
- 'location' parameter now comes before public_key parmeter (which is now optional, as not required for ostype='Windows')

### v0.8.13 (7/29/17):
- Added support for container instances preview
- New functions: create_container_instance, detete_container_instance, get_container_instance
- list_container_instances_sub, list_container_instances, list_container_instances_sub   

### v0.8.12 (7/27/17):
- Change get_subscription_from_cli() to read utf-8-sig encoding
- Not sure why this became necessary after working before - will need to do more testing of this

### v0.8.11 (7/27/17):
- Added get_subscription_from_cli() to return the default, or named, subscription id from CLI's
  local cache - will only work if CLI local cache is present on the machine (i.e. you ran 
  'az login' once or are in Azure Cloud Shell)

### v0.8.10 (7/25/17):
- Remove contentVersion from template functions

### v0.8.9 (7/25/17):
- Fix bug in template functions which messed up parameters

### v0.8.8 (7/20/17):
- Changes to readme and setup.py to display readme in pypi.
- Created a github wiki and started moving reference content out of the readme and into the wiki.

### v0.8.2 (7/19/17):
- Support getting Azure authentication from the local CLI cache instead of requiring a service principal.
- Implies that you have run 'az login' recently enough to have a local unexpired auth token
- New function get_access_token_from_cli()

### v0.8.1 (6/26/2017):
- Breaking change: Support national/isolated clouds through environment variables. 
  E.g. for China: 
  set AZURE_RM_ENDPOINT to 'https://management.chinacloudapi.cn'
  set AZURE_AUTH_ENDPOINT to 'https://login.chinacloudapi.cn/'
  set AZURE_RESOURCE_ENDPOINT to 'https://management.core.chinacloudapi.cn/'

### v0.8.0 (6/25/2017):
- Support national/isolated clouds. Now you can set an environment variable: AZURE_RM_ENDPOINT 
  to override the default endpoint. E.g. for China: set AZURE_RM_ENDPOINT to "https://management.chinacloudapi.cn"

### v0.7.29 (6/05/2017):
- Add get_vmss_rolling_upgrades() for Rolling upgrade preview.

### v0.7.28 (5/27/2017):
- Change get_vmss_nics() to use COMP_API version. 
- Add get_vmss_public_ips()

### v0.7.27 (5/27/2017):
- Update Compute and Network API versions to latest.

### v0.7.26 (5/13/2017):
- Add get_events_for_subscription() for querying audit log - thanks @gatneil

### v0.7.25 (Apr 25 2017):
- Add support for VMSS public IP per VM preview in create_vmss()

### v0.7.24 (Apr 24 2017):
- Add Kubernetes support to create_acs() with optional params for app_id, app_secret - thanks @pothedar

### v0.7.22 (Apr 4 2017):
- Preview get_vmss_public_ips() (won't work unless your subscription is enabled)

### v0.7.20 (Apr 4 2017):
- Fix NETWORK_API version for get_vmss_vm_nics()

### v0.7.19 (Feb 10 2017):
- Add optional subnet address prefix parameter (subnet_prefix) to create_vnet()

### v0.7.18 (Feb 10 2017):
- Enhance examples/jumpbox.py to create VNET if not found.
- Update Compute API version to 2017-03-30.

### v0.7.17 (Feb 9 2017):
- Add an optional nsg_id argument to create_nic()
- Add nic support to examples\jumpbox.py

### v0.7.16 (Feb 6 2017):
- Fix create_vm() to support creating multiple VMs in the same resource group (by not hardcoding osdisk name)
- Improvements to examples/jumpbox.py to support ssh and various defaults

### v0.7.15 (Feb 5 2017):
- BREAKING CHANGE: create_vmss() - storage containers argument removed
- Fix create_vmss() and create it with managed disks
- Fix examples/create_vmss()
- Update Compute test

### v0.7.14 (Feb 5 2017):
- BREAKING CHANGE: create_vm() - storage account argument removed, OS URI parameter removed
- Fix create_vm() and create it with managed disks
- Add list_vnet_rg() to list VNETs in a resource group
- Fix examples/create_vm()
- Add new examples/jumpbox.py to drop a jumpbox vm into existing VNET
- Update Compute test

### v0.7.13 (Jan 29 2017):
- Set User-Agent in the Azure REST headers.

### v0.7.12 (Jan 26 2017):
- Add Availability Set support: create_as(), get_as(), delete_as(). Thanks @KineticHub
- See also create_as.py in examples.

### v0.7.11 (Jan 22 2017):
- Add paginated list_vmss_vm_instance_view_pg() function to make it easier to get a smaller list of instances views at a time

### v0.7.10 (Jan 20 2017):
- Fix adal deprecation issue

### v0.7.9 (Jan 19 2017):
- Update BASE_API for Resource Manager calls to 2016-09-01

### v0.7.8 (Jan 18 2017):
- Update list_vmss_vm_instance_view() to use paginated API
- Set COMP_API version to be 2016-04-30-preview

### v0.7.7 (Jan 10 2017):
- Add update_load_balancer() - makes it easy to change load balancer configuration
- Add vip_swap.py to examples 

### v0.7.6 (Jan 6 2017):
- Update COMPUTE_API to 2016-08-30
- Adds ability to update customData property of a VM scale set

### v0.7.5 (Dec 9 2016):
- Update NETWORK_API to 2016-09-01
- This change fixes get_vmss_nics()

### v0.7.4 (Dec 5 2016):
- Updated Microsoft.Compute API version to 2016-04-30-preview
- This is to support preview scale set features like managed disks and large scale sets

### v0.7.3 (Nov 19 2016):
- Added list_vmss_skus(access_token, subscription_id, resource_group, vmss_name)
- list the VM skus available for a VM Scale Set

### v0.7.2 (Oct 31 2016):
- Refactored azure media services functions (finishing the changes in 0.7.0)

### v0.7.1 (Oct 31 2016):
- BREAKING CHANGE: to support sha key support in create_vm() and create_vmss() 
- These function have new positions for user/password, and the new public_key parameter
- You can now provide a public_key OR a password (or both if you want)
- New usage: 
create_vm(access_token, subscription_id, resource_group, vm_name, vm_size, publisher, offer, sku, version, storage_account, os_uri, nic_id, location, username='azure', password=None, public_key=None)
- it is recommended to pass in the username, password and/or public_key as named parameters to avoid confusion. 

- New usage: 
create_vmss(access_token, subscription_id, resource_group, vmss_name, vm_size, capacity, publisher, offer, sku, version, storage_container_list, subnet_id, be_pool_id, lb_pool_id, location, username='azure', password=None, public_key=None, overprovision='true', upgradePolicy='Manual') 
- it is recommended to pass in any optional parameters after username as named parameters to avoid confusion.

### v0.7.0 (Oct 31 2016):
- All create functions have been refactored to make them easier to maintain.
- Previously a PUT REST call had its JSON body constructed using join() to concatenate a string. This was cumbersome and messy to update.
- Now a Python dictionary is constructed for the body, which is then converted to a string with json.dumps() 
- In future it will be easier to create functions without messing with large join() strings.

### v0.6.17 (Oct 29 2016):
- Add create_autoscale_rule() and create_autoscale_settings(). 
- The output from create_autoscale_rule() is a dictionary object. Create a list of these rules and pass the list as an argument to create_autoscale setttings().
- Pass in the name of an existing VM scale set to create_autoscale_settings.
- Added unit tests for insights. See insights_tests.py in [test/](./test) for an example of how to call these new functions.


### v0.6.16 (Oct 23 2016):
- Added list_vm_instance_view() to get instance details about the VMs in a resource group


### v0.6.15 (Oct 23 2016):
- Added get_vm_instance_view() to get instance state details about a VM


### v0.6.13 (Oct 14 2016):
- Added Azure Container Services support + unit tests.

```
  create_container_service(access_token, subscription_id, resource_group, service_name,
    agent_count, agent_vm_size, agent_dns, master_dns, admin_user, public_key, location,
    master_count=3, orchestrator='DCOS') # create a new container service 
  delete_container_service(access_token, subscription_id, resource_group, container_service_name) # delete a named container service
  get_container_service(access_token, subscription_id, resource_group, service_name) # get details about an Azure Container Server
  list_acs_operations(access_token) # list available Container Server operations
  list_container_services(access_token, subscription_id, resource_grou) # list the container services in a resource group
  list_container_services_sub(access_token, subscription_id) # list the container services in a subscription
```

### v0.6.12 (Oct 7 2016):
- Added create_vmss() function + unit test. This function creates a VM Scale Set. Initially it only accepts a password rather than a cert. There are a few assumptions made about load balancer configuration too. For example see [create_vmss.py](./examples/create_vmss.py).
- Started using a change log :-)

### Earlier versions

The most recent enhancements before 0.6.12 include the following:

- Added create_vm() function to create a virtual machine.
- Added create_lb_with_nat_pool() function to create a load balancer which can be used with VM Scale Sets.
- Added unit tests, with the goal that all new functions should include a unit test. See [test/](./test) for more details. These are also useful for seeing how to call functions.
- Added delete_vnet().
- Fixed a bug with stop_vm().
- Added pagination support for list functions.
- Added media services support (msleal).
- Added insights metrics support (gatneil).
- Added ability to list deployment operations (rcarmo).


